## **Reflection letter**

## _Addressed to Pippin and Sharon_

We’re already at the end of the semester… these few months we’re a blur for me. It was a big transition phase as multiple things happened in my work, emotional/personal and university life (I’ll spare you the details...).
Even though I wish I was in a better mental space this semester, I think this specific class was a great way for me to focus my head on something that was not anxiety inducing. It’s so easy to get lost in code, and to hyper focus on debugging! I think programming has become somewhat of a meditative process for me and somewhat of an escape.
Furthermore, getting better at it, unlocking the basic methods, and developing the logical thinking behind it made the whole creative coding process way more enjoyable than what it was when I first started. Not getting stuck after writing a few lines of code shifted my focus on conceptualizing instead. I’ve been creating images and animations for a moment now, but I am now super happy and proud to tell people one of my favourite medium for creation is programming. This class made me realize I could make interesting programs that not only looked good, was fun and satisfying for the player, but was also thoughtful, sensitive, and thought inducing. Looking back at my first projects, that’s the main thing I would denote. Since my knowledge of programming was limited, my focus was more on technical challenges than on conceptual thinking.
I’m really happy and impressed with this class. It was personal, even though it was taught remotely. The fact each one of us could learn and develop our skills at our own rhythm was absolutely stunning! It felt like you wanted us to learn and succeed, and that is honestly refreshing. It’s crazy to say, as this should be the main concern for professors that we put our trust in, but I feel like it is very hard to find dedicated and passionate people to teach. This is my third year of university, and I’ve had a lot of different people teach me different stuff, so this isn’t just a compliment out of nowhere.
Another thing I appreciated a lot is your openness to different people and projects. I loved the fact that no matter how ‘normal’ or unusual, no matter how simple or complex, no matter what the project was, really, you were there to encourage us. Some of the things I particularly enjoy in art is experimentation, being all over the place and making the weirdest things. In the context of educational institutions, this trait isn’t particularly appreciated by many.
Overall, the JavaScript journey was way more fun than I thought it would be, challenging and rewarding. I’m looking forward to the next coding class and, for sure, this is a skill I want to continue developing and using in the future.

# _- see ya! maxi_
